Docs Style Guide (#1543)
Codecademy/docs: documentation/style-guide.md

# Docs Style Guide

Welcome to Codecademy Docs! This document is a general guide about entry standards. Following this guide will reduce the number of potential edits that will need to be made to your PR.

## Types of Entries

There are three types of Docs entries:

### Topics
- Written by the maintainers as needed.
- Cover a broad category such as a programming languages like [Java](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java) and [C++](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp), or extensive subjects like ([Open Source](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/open-source) and [Cybersecurity](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cybersecurity).

> - Vary in structure from a couple of paragraphs to a multiple-sectioned entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vary in structure from a few paragraphs to a multiple-sectioned entry.
```

### Concepts
- Provided as a list under each [topic](#topics).

> - Cover a small piece of the parent topic such as a class, library, control structure, or language element.

Reviewer: Consider adding this link to class: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/class

> - For non-language topics, can be any discrete subject within the parent topic. (Such as [Linux](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/open-source/linux) under [Open Source](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/open-source))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For non-language topics, the entry can be any discrete subject within the parent topic. (Such as [Linux](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/open-source/linux) under [Open Source](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/open-source))
```

> - For [General](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general) concepts, can be any computer/code related subject not broad enough for its own topic entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For [General](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general) concepts, the entry can be any computer/code related subject not broad enough for its own topic entry.
```

> - Concepts typically have at least a couple of paragraphs and multiple sections. (see: [Headers/Sections](#headerssections))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Concepts typically have at least a few paragraphs and multiple sections. (see: [Headers/Sections](#headerssections))
```

### Terms
- Are provided as a list under each parent [concept](#concepts).
- Cover small elements of a concept, typically a method, function, property, or command.
- Terms are typically shorter in length than concepts.
- Terms typically have no more than two or three sections. (see: [Headers/Sections](#headerssections))
- We provide a [template for a term entry](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/term-entry-template.md).

## Writing Entries

- Entries _must_ be completely original work. Copying from other websites (in whole or in part) is plagiarism and is unacceptable in Docs.
- Entries are all written using Markdown.
- Do not use HTML in place of Markdown formatting.
- Bold the first occurrence of the concept or term in the body of the entry.
- Bold should not be used for emphasis.
- Use italics for emphasis when necessary.
- Do not use italics for new terms.
- Always expand and explain abbreviations when using them for the first time.
- When referring to properties and methods, include the leading dot, and for methods include trailing parenthesis: `.property`, `.method()`.

> - When referring to elements as they would appear in code (properties, methods, functions, commands, expressions, etc.) set them off with Markdown’s inline-code syntax i.e. backticks: (\`...\`). (see: [Code](#code))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When referring to elements as they would appear in code (properties, methods, functions, commands, expressions, etc.) use Markdown’s inline-code syntax i.e. backticks: (\`...\`). (see: [Code](#code))
```

- With bulleted lists:
  - A line break should precede and follow the list.
  - There should be no line breaks between items in the list.
  - Full sentences should be punctuated appropriately, with leading capitals and ending punctuation.

> - Avoid using first and second person pronouns, i.e. "I", "we", and "you".

Reviewer: So Docs entries must be in passive voice?

- Avoid words or phrases that assume the reader’s knowledge such as "easy", "obviously", "simply", "of course", and so on.

> - Always use an Oxford comma.

Reviewer: Can we include a link to this just so non-native English speakers can see what it is?

https://www.grammarly.com/blog/what-is-the-oxford-comma-and-why-do-people-care-so-much-about-it/

- Limit the entry to the concept or term being illustrated. i.e. if you find yourself writing about a method or property in a concept entry, it would be better to give it its own term entry.

> - Use a "note" to inform the reader of points of potential confusion or warn of potential pitfalls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use a "note" to inform the reader of points of potential confusion or to warn of potential pitfalls.
```

  - A "note" occupies its own line with line breaks before and after.

>   - A "note" uses the Markdown blockquote format followed by the word "Note:" in bold, followed by the note text: `> **Note:** Note Text.`

Reviewer 2: It might be a good idea to put in parenthesis what part represents the blockquote and what represents the bold.
```suggestion
  - A "note" uses the Markdown blockquote (`>`) format followed by the word "Note:" in bold (`**`), followed by the note text: `> **Note:** Note Text.`
```

  - A "note" should be brief. Generally, one line of text.
- Be as concise as possible without sacrificing clarity.
- Always check for grammar and spelling errors.

## Headers/Sections

- Do not use any h1 headers (in Markdown preceded by `#`).
- Do not include a title header, that is automatically provided by the metadata.
- Do not include a header before the introductory paragraph(s).
- Main headers should be h2 (`##`).
- Sub headers should be h3 (`###`).
- Headers should be written in Title Case.
- Headers should not include ending punctuation.
- Headers should not exceed 5 words.
- Line breaks should precede and follow each header/sub header.

Concept and term entries for a language function, method, command or other language structure will typically have two or three sections with the corresponding headers:

- `## Syntax` for the section introducing the syntax of the term.
- `## Example` for the section with a code block showing the term in use.
- `## Codebyte Example` for those languages that support codebytes, the section with a runnable codebyte example.
- There can be more headers and sub headers in cases where the complexity of the subject warrants it.

## Code

> Markdown inline code syntax, i.e. single backticks (\`...\`), should be used to set off the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Markdown inline code syntax, i.e. single backticks (\`...\`), should be used for the following:
```

- Classes, methods, functions, commands and other language keywords.
- References, such as variable or macro names, referring to a code block.
- Numbers and operators when referring to their use in code.
- Expressions and inline examples of code.
- File paths.

In code blocks:

- Do not use tabs for indents. Use two spaces.

> - In code given as examples, the entire block should be runnable as written.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In code examples, the entire block should be runnable as written.
```

    - Use blocks appropriate to the language used. (see: [Code Blocks in Content Standards](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/content-standards.md#code-blocks).)
    - They are usually preceded by a description of what the example does.
    - Often followed by an "Output" block.
    - Output should be illustrated in a separate "Output" block rather than listed as comments in the example code.
  - "Output" blocks.
    - Follows an "Example" block.
    - Shows the output from an example.
    - Use a ```shell block.
    - Usually preceded by a sentence like, "This example results in the following output:"
  - "Codebyte Example" blocks.
    - Used with a `## Codebyte Example` header.
    - Typically, only one per entry.
    - Typically, appears at the end of the entry.
    - Displays example code that is runnable.
    - Use codebyte blocks appropriate to the language. (see: [Codebytes in Content Standards](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/content-standards.md#codebytes-runnable-code-blocks).)
    - They are usually preceded by a description of what the example does.
    - They are not followed by an "Output" block.

> - Code blocks may appear differently than the above if the entry warrants it.

Reviewer 2: This line (117)  could be written as a note.

- If there are parentheses in the link, replace them with `%28` and `%29`.

## Metadata

Each Docs entry is preceded by metadata that provides information about how the entry is displayed.

The metadata for a concept or term entry should look like this:

```
---
Title: 'The Title'
Description: 'A brief description'
Subjects:
  - 'A subject name'
  - 'A second subject name'
  - 'An nth subject name'
Tags:
  - 'A tag'
  - 'A second tag'
  - 'An nth tag'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-example-course'
  - 'path/example-path'
---
```

- The metadata starts on the first line of the entry.
- The metadata begins and ends with three dashes (`---`) on their own line.
- There should be a line-break after the last line of the metadata.
- There should not be extra line breaks within the metadata.
- The data for `Title:` and `Description:` appear as single-quoted strings on the same line.
- Do not use apostrophes or quotes in the title or description.
- Do not use boldface or italics in the title or description.
- The description should be short, typically one sentence.

> - The description should be echoed in the introductory paragraph of the entry, i.e. The information in the description should appear in the introduction to the entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The description should be repeated in the introductory paragraph of the entry, i.e. The information in the description should appear in the introduction to the entry.
```

> The description should be repeated in the introductory paragraph of the entry, i.e. The information in the description should appear in the introduction to the entry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The description should be repeated in the introductory paragraph of the entry, i.e., The information in the description should appear in the introduction to the entry.
```

> - The description for a coding term should begin with a present-tense verb, i.e. "Returns", "Calculates", "Outputs", etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The description for a coding term should begin with a present-tense verb, i.e., "Returns", "Calculates", "Outputs", etc.
```

- `CatalogContent:` appears without spaces.
- The items for `Subjects:`, `Tags:`, and `CatalogContent:` appear as bulleted lists of single-quoted strings, starting on the next line.
- The items for `Subjects:`, `Tags:`, and `CatalogContent:` are indented two spaces before the dash.
- For `Subjects:`
  - Items are languages and technical fields that the entry relates to.
  - Items come from [this list](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md).
  - Should have one to two items. Always at least one.
- For `Tags:`
  - Items are key words that are relevant to the entry.
  - Items come from [this list](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md).
  - Should have three to four items.

>   - If you wish to use a new tag, add it in the appropriate place in the [tags.md](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md) file as part of your PR.

Reviewer 2: Just to clarify what we mean the appropriate place.
```suggestion
  - If you wish to use a new tag, add it in the appropriate place (alphabetical order) in the [tags.md](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md) file as part of your PR.
```

- For `CatalogContent:`
  - Items are slugs of Codecademy course and Path landing pages that relate to the entry.

>   - For items use [this document](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/catalog-content.md) as a guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For items, use [this document](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/catalog-content.md) as a guide.
```

  - There should be no line breaks between items in the list.
  - Full sentences should be punctuated appropriately, with leading capitals and ending punctuation.
- Avoid using first and second person pronouns, i.e. "I", "we", and "you".
- Avoid words or phrases that assume the reader’s knowledge such as "easy", "obviously", "simply", "of course", and so on.
- Always use an [Oxford comma](https://www.grammarly.com/blog/what-is-the-oxford-comma-and-why-do-people-care-so-much-about-it/).
- Limit the entry to the concept or term being illustrated. i.e., if you find yourself writing about a method or property in a concept entry, it would be better to give it its own term entry.
- Use a "note" to inform the reader of points of potential confusion or to warn of potential pitfalls.
  - A "note" occupies its own line with line breaks before and after.
  - A "note" uses the Markdown blockquote (`>`) format followed by the word "Note:" in bold (`**`), followed by the note text:
    - `> **Note:** Note Text.`
  - A "note" should be brief. Generally, one line of text.
- Be as concise as possible without sacrificing clarity.
- Always check for grammar and spelling errors.

## Headers/Sections

> - Do not use any h1 headers (in Markdown preceded by `#`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Do not use any `h1` headers (in Markdown preceded by `#`).
```

- `## Codebyte Example` for those languages that support codebytes, the section with a runnable codebyte example.
- There can be more headers and sub headers in cases where the complexity of the subject warrants it.

## Code

Markdown inline code syntax, i.e. single backticks (\`...\`), should be used for the following:

- Classes, methods, functions, commands and other language keywords.
- References, such as variable or macro names, referring to a code block.
- Numbers and operators when referring to their use in code.
- Expressions and inline examples of code.
- File paths.

In code blocks:

- Do not use tabs for indents. Use two spaces.
- In code examples, the entire block should be runnable as written.
- All code blocks should be syntactically correct.
- Examples should be complete and not be broken into smaller blocks.
- Comments should be capitalized and punctuated like a normal sentence.
- Line breaks should precede and follow each code block.
- There are four general types of code blocks in Docs:
  - "Syntax" blocks.
    - Used with a `## Syntax` header.
    - Shows the general syntax of a language element.

>     - Use ` ```pseudo ` blocks.

Reviewer 4: I think we should include matching pairs in these examples. Otherwise the lines that follow are formatted as a code block. This is an issue in the language reference list below as well.

>     - Use ` ```pseudo ` blocks.

Author: These lines are rendering properly in the preview for me.

>     - They are usually followed by a description of parameters, return values etc.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - They are usually followed by a description of parameters, return values, etc.
```

  - "Example" blocks.
    - Used with a `## Example` header. (also `## Examples` or `## Example 2` etc.)
    - Shows example code.

>     - Use blocks appropriate to the language used. (see: [Supported Code Blocks](#supported-code-blocks).)

Reviewer 4: This formatting seems odd to me. Feels like this parenthetical should live within the sentence instead of as a separate fragment.

## Metadata

Each Docs entry is preceded by metadata that provides information about how the entry is displayed.

The metadata for a concept or term entry should look like this:

```
---
Title: 'The Title'
Description: 'A brief description'
Subjects:
  - 'A subject name'
  - 'A second subject name'
  - 'An nth subject name'
Tags:
  - 'A tag'
  - 'A second tag'
  - 'An nth tag'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-example-course'
  - 'path/example-path'
---
```

> **Note:** The template above does not apply to topic entries. See our [topic entry template](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/topic-info-template.md) for more details.

- The metadata starts on the first line of the entry.
- The metadata begins and ends with three dashes (`---`) on their own line.
- There should be a line-break after the last line of the metadata.
- There should not be extra line breaks within the metadata.
- The data for `Title:` and `Description:` appear as single-quoted strings on the same line.
- Do not use apostrophes or quotes in the title or description.

> - Do not use boldface or italics in the title or description.

Reviewer 4: This seems to be in opposition to what I've seen in some of our content. I think I generally see the term in bold if it is used explicitly in the description. Perhaps we should include some additional context here to draw that distinction.

Reviewer 3: On line 47 I do see that the first occurrence of the term should be bolded. I think this section is only about the metadata but I can see how this can be confusing. I'm wondering what else you think we can do to make this more explicit 🤔

Author: I changed it to "`Title:` and `Description:`" so it's clearer that it refers to the metadata entry.

- The description for a coding term should begin with a present-tense verb, i.e., "Returns", "Calculates", "Outputs", etc.
- `CatalogContent:` appears without spaces.
- The items for `Subjects:`, `Tags:`, and `CatalogContent:` appear as bulleted lists of single-quoted strings, starting on the next line.
- The items for `Subjects:`, `Tags:`, and `CatalogContent:` are indented two spaces before the dash.
- For `Subjects:`
  - Items are languages and technical fields that the entry relates to.
  - Items come from [this list](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md).
  - Should have one to two items. Always at least one.
- For `Tags:`
  - Items are key words that are relevant to the entry.
  - Items come from [this list](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md).
  - Should have three to four items.
  - If you wish to use a new tag, add it in the appropriate place (alphabetical order) in the [tags.md](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md) file as part of your PR.
- For `CatalogContent:`

>   - Items are slugs of Codecademy course and Path landing pages that relate to the entry.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Items are slugs of Codecademy courses and path landing pages that relate to the entry.
```
